Proposal: Provide a Common MQTT Mapper (#5765)
kubeedge/kubeedge: docs/proposals/mapper- provide-a- common- MQTT- mapper.md

---

> title: Mapper Provide A Common MQTT Mapper

Reviewer: This description is a bit strange, how about using Provide A Common MQTT Mapper directly?

Author: Ok, I will take you advice.

- Provide a more scalable solution for parsing attribute values from more customized messages wherever possible.

### Proposal

        Providing a common MQTT mapper using the latest mapper-framework aims to help developers easily make use of mapper to solve MQTT communication, in order to simplify the device integration process, improve system flexibility and reliability.

##### Scope

- Development of the MQTT Mapper: Utilize the latest Mapper-Framework to add an MQTT protocol Mapper to the kubeedge/mappers-go project. Ensure the Mapper can subscribe to specified MQTT topics, receive messages, and parse them.

- Message Parsing and Serialization Support: functionality to retrieve messages from MQTT service topics. Support parsing messages using JSON, YAML and XML formats to extract attribute values.

##### User

- Developers: Developers are needed to implement and test the MQTT Mapper.

- IoT Device Manufacturers and Operators: IoT device manufacturers and operators can use this universal MQTT Mapper to manage device communications.

### Design Details

##### Architecture and Modules

>         The architecture for Mapper Provide a Common Mapper will be modular to ensure scalability and maintainability. The main components include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        The architecture of providing a common MQTT mapper will be modular to ensure scalability and maintainability. The main components include:
```

Author: Thank you for pointing out the unclear design ideas and related errors in the proposal, I will promptly revise my proposal in response to your comments.

- Base Environment Setup: Utilizes the latest mapper-framework to create a MQTT mapper for standardized operatons and interactions.

- Main algorithm design: Parses the attribute values from the message using common serialization methods(JSON, YAML, XML).

        The architectures and related concepts are shown in the below figure. In the figure, we assume that in the cloud-side-end scenario, device state modifications can be initiated by the cloud.

> <img title="相对路径演示" src="../images/proposals/mapper-provide-a-common-MQTT-mapper-architecture.jpg" alt="本地路径" width="546" data-align="center">

Reviewer: The communication method between devicetwin and mapper in the architecture diagram is wrong. Now it relies on dmi in devicetwin and defines the grpc interface for implementation, rather than mqtt broker.

![edge](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bb783d37-94c6-4160-8803-4d0253107371)

Author: Ok, I will use the architecture diagram you provided me as an overall description of Kubeedge.

##### Base Environment Setup

1. Generate Mapper files through the Mapper-Framework framework
   
   1)Download kubeedge-master.zip from the official website, take the mapper-framewokr under the staging folder in it, and transfer it to the VM master node.

>    

Reviewer: The mapper-framework located in the staging directory of the kubeedge main repo is in the development process. You can download the stable release of mapper-framework at https://github.com/kubeedge/mapper-framework.

Author: Ok, I understand what you mean, I will modify the expression here, in practice we use Kubeedge v1.17.0 version as the base environment for generating mapper.

   2)Execute a command: 
   
   ```go
   make generate
   ```
   
   3)Enter the project name of the Mapper)
   
   <img title="" src="../images/proposals/mapper-provide-a-common-MQTT-mapper-pic.jpg" alt="" data-align="center">

2. Determine the Device model and Device instance files for device
   
   1)Device model: A device model describes the device properties exposed by the device . A device model is a Physical model which constrains the properties and parameters of physical devices.
   
   ```
   apiVersion: devices.kubeedge.io/v1beta1
   kind: DeviceModel
   metadata:
     name: beta1-model
   spec:
     properties:
       - name: temp
         description: beta1-model
         type: INT
         accessMode: ReadWrite
         maximum: "100"
         minimum: "1"
         unit: "Celsius"

>      protocol: modbus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     protocol: mqtt
```

This proposal is to provide a mapper for the mqtt protocol, so the protocol name here should be mqtt

Author: Ok, I'll all change the model and instance files based on your comments.

   metadata:
     name: beta1-device
   spec:
     deviceModelRef:
       name: beta1-model
     nodeName: worker-node1
     properties:
       - name: temp
         collectCycle: 10000000000  # The frequency of reporting data to the cloud, once every 10 seconds
         reportCycle: 10000000000   # The frequency of data push to user applications or databases, once every 10 seconds
         reportToCloud: true
         desired:
           value: "30"
         pushMethod:
           mqtt:
             address: tcp://101.133.150.110:1883
             topic: temp
             qos: 0
             retained: false
           dbMethod:
             influxdb2:
               influxdb2ClientConfig:
                 url: http://127.0.0.1:8086
                 org: test-org
                 bucket: test-bucket
               influxdb2DataConfig:
                 measurement: stat
                 tag:
                   unit: temperature
                 fieldKey: beta1test
         visitors:
           protocolName: modbus
           configData:
             register: "HoldingRegister"
             offset: 2
             limit: 1
             scale: 1
             isSwap: true

>              isRegisterSwap: true

Reviewer: Here are fields related to the modbus protocol, which should be replaced by fields common to the mqtt protocol.

Author: Ok, I'll all change the model and instance files based on your comments.

     protocol:
       protocolName: modbus
       configData:
         ip: 172.17.0.3

>          port: 1502

Reviewer: ditto

Author: Ok, I'll all change the model and instance files based on your comments.
